look at all these Tomatoes what am I
gonna do with them all I have an idea
I'm gonna make soup today's soup is
really delicious and a little bit
different because it's a roasted tomato
soup so delicious cut four pounds of
plum tomatoes in half I like to use the
plum here because they have less liquid
in them so the soup will end up thicker
and a little richer but I suppose you
could use regular tomatoes and then just
cook them down a little more up to you
to intensify the flavor roast the
tomatoes and I'm going to roast them
with some garlic and some onions get
everything nice and sort of cook down a
little bit before I simmer it with my
stock two medium onions dice them up
they don't need to be too fine because
the soups gonna be pureed later but not
too chunky either let's agree on 1/2
inch three quarters of an inch maybe
like the way I'm making you part of the
process don't you feel good it's amazing
how onions really add so much sweetness
to things when they cook down right
they're so sharp and bright when they're
raw and they're so sweet and delicious
when they're cooked I just love that
three cloves of garlic they don't even
really need to be smashed by I'm going
to smash them down just a little bit
release some of their aroma and then
everything goes onto the baking sheet
with the tomatoes just get them down in
there with the tomatoes it doesn't
matter if the sheet pan is crowded the
juices will sort of gather in there and
then they go into the soup pot anyway so
normally I like to spread things out if
I want a lot of caramelization here I'm
not looking for tons of caramelization
just a tiny bit drizzle with a quarter
cup of olive oil and season with salt
and pepper you can season again later
when you puree the soup together have
your oven preheating to 450 degrees and
what you want to do is roast your
tomatoes and onions until the tomatoes
are dark brown in spots let's take about
35 or 40 minutes after 35 40 minutes the
tomatoes should be done
all right see how they've gotten kind of
wrinkled and they're starting to get
brown in spots now they're ready to cook
even further into a soup just scrape
them into a large Dutch oven this is
what you were building flavor here a
kind of flavor that you wouldn't really
get if you just simmered them from the
beginning make sure you get all the pan
juices into your pot all right and then
to that add four cups of chicken broth
you can use homemade if you have it
that's always better you'll probably
need a little more salt if you do that
when the soup comes to a boil you want
to turn it down to a simmer and then let
it cook uncovered until it's slightly
reduced and the tomatoes are really nice
and soft when the soup is simmered for
twenty-five minutes it's time to puree
it I'm gonna use an immersion blender
because I have one and I really like
using them if you don't have an
immersion blender you use a regular
blender but make sure that you only fill
it about a third of the way and then
cover the top with
because liquid expands and it can be
the great thing about emerging blender
is no splatter basically no mess these
kind come apart so they're really alive
hmm really sweet from all that roastin
so I think it needs a little bit more
salt I said I didn't want more pepper
but I do want more pepper there's not a
lot of seasonings in here so you want to
make it really fault flavored with what
you have
I think sprinkling a little basil over
the top at the end as a garnish is nice
or you can stir it all in and flavor of
the whole soup so delicious it's like
summer in a bowl that's why I like to
freeze it for later so that I can
experience some are all over again in
the winter
mm-hmm know what I mean I do not like to
let go I don't know about you but summer
is my favorite season and I like to eat
as if it were summer all year long make
this soup and you're gonna be able to
give it a little drizzle of olive oil
and enjoy your summer tomato soup freeze
some keep it for later or why not chill
this and serve it cold I bet that would
be delicious
hi guys thanks for watching this video
be sure to click here if you want to
subscribe and click over here if you
want to continue watching more great
videos like this